# Read: 02 - jQuery, Events, and The DOM

## What is it?

**jQuery** offers a simple way to achieve a variety of common JS tasks quickly and consistently, across all major browsers and without any fallback code needed. 
- jQuery is a JavaScript file that you include in your web pages. It lets you find elements using CSS-style selectors and then do something with the elements using jQuery methods. 
- A function called **jQuery()**  lets you find one or more elements in the page. It creates an object called jQuery which holds references to those elements. $() is often used as a shorthand to save typing jQuery().
- The jQuery [$()] function has one paramter: a CSS-style selector. 
- For example, $('li.hot') selector finds all of the ```<li>``` elements with class of **hot**.

**DOM similarities**

- jQuery selectors perform a similar task to tradition DOM queries. 
- You can store the jQuery object in a variable, just as you can with DOM nodes. 
- YOu can use jQuery methods and properties (like DOM methods and properties) to manipulate the DOM nodes that you select.

## Methods

The jQuery object has many methods that you can use to work with the elements you select. The methods represent tasks that you commonly need to perform with elements. 
- The object and elements it contains is referred to as a **matched set** or a **jQuery selection**.
- You can use the methods of the jQuery object to update the elements that it contains. 
- Using the example from above, the syntax would look like this: 
$('li.hot').addClass('complete');

**Key Differences From DOM**

- It's cross-browser, and there's no need to write fallback code.
- Selecting elements is simpler (because it uses CSS-style syntax) and is more accurate.
- Event handling is simpler as it uses one method that works in all major browsers. 
- Methods affect all the selected elements without the need to loop through each one (see p310).
- Additional methods are provided for popular required tasks such as animation (see p332).
- Once you have made a selection, you can apply multiple methods to it.

**Where to Get it**
1. In order to use jQuery, the first thing you need to do is include the jQuery ```<script>``` just above your closing body tag in your HTML.
2. Once jQuery has been added to the page, a second JS file is included that uses jQuery selectors and methods to update the content of the HTML page. 

You can download jQuery or import directly into your page. 

See pp. 302-303 for how to find elements, 304-305 on doing things with your selection, 306-309 for various others. 

## Events

- The .on() method is used to handle all events. Behind the scenes, jQuery handles all of the cross-browser issues. It needs two parameters:
- The first parameter is the event you want to respond to ie the "click" event.
- The second parameter is the code you want to run when that event occurs on any element in the matched set. This could be a named function or an anonymous function. 
More advanced options for the on() method are on page 330.

**Event Object**

Every event handling function receives an event object. It has methods and properties related to the event that occured. 
- Just like the JS event object, the jQuery event object has properties and methods that tell you more about the event that took place. 

## Traversing the DOM

When you have made a jQuery selection, you can use these methods to access other element nodes relative to the initial selection. 



[Table of Contents](README.md)