# Read: 08: SQL

**What is SQL?**

SQL - Structured Query Language

SQL is a language designed to allow both technical and non-technical users query, manipulate, and transform data from a relational database. Due to its simplicity, SQL databases provide safe and scalable storage for millions of websites and mobile apps. 
- There are many SQL databases including:
- - SQLite, MySQL, Postgres, Oracle and Microsoft SQL Servers. All of which support the common SQL language standard, but each implementation can differ in the additional features and storage types it supports. 

**Relational Databases**

A relational database represents a collection of related (2-dimensional) tables. Each of the tables are similar to an Excel spreadsheet, with a fixed number of named columns (attributes) and any number of rows of data. 

[SQLBolt](https://sqlbolt.com/) provides interactive lessons and exercises to help you learn SQL.

## Lesson 1: [SELECT queries 101](https://sqlbolt.com/lesson/select_queries_introduction)

To retrieve data we need to:
- SELECT statements, which are often colloquially refered to as queries. 
- A query itself is just a statement which declares what data we are looking for, where to find it in the database, and optionally, how to transform it before it is returned.
- Think of SQL as an object or entity (Dog), and each row in that table as a specific instance of that type (golden retriever). 
- If we want to retrieve all the data at once we can use the asterisk shorthand in place of listing all the column names individually. (SELECT * FROM mytable;) This is useful because it's a simple way to inspect a table.

## Lesson 2: [Queries with constraints Pt. 1](https://sqlbolt.com/lesson/select_queries_with_constraints)

[Table of Contents](README.md)