# Node, Express, and APIs

## What is Node.js?

- A JS runtime bult on Chrome's v8 JavaScript Engine
- Event based, non-blocking, asynchronous runtime using Google's JS engine and libuv library. 
- Designed with performance in mind and is responsible for compiling JavaScript directly to native machine code that your computer can execute. 
- This doesn't mean that Node programs are executed in a browser. They aren't. It's a file system API, an HTTP library, and a number of operating system related ultility methods. 

Node.js has excellent support for modern JavaScript because it has the latest and most modern syntax running through it. 

## NPM 

In addition to being the package manager for JS, npm is also the world's largest software registry. There are over 1 million packages of JS code available to download, with billions of downloads per week. 

You can install a package globally and/or locally. Globally gives you access to linter's that can highlight your syntax and tell you you're not using latest versions of JS. 
Locally you can use a version called **test** which creates and auto-populates a package.json file in the same folder as the one you're working in. 

## What is Node Used For?

One of the most common uses for Node is installing and running various build tools designed to automate the process of developing a modern JS app. They can be used for anything from bundling your JS files and dependencies into static assets, to running tests, or automatic code linting and style checking. 

## Lecture Notes:

We will be running three npm installs: dotenv, express, cors.

require('dotenv').config();
const express = require('express');
const cors = require('cors');

Anything from the .env file shows up here:
const PORT = process.env.PORT;

- Get an "instance" of express as our app
const app = express();

app.use( cors());

- Route on the "/" in the URL bar of the browser
Express takes two callback parameters that express actually gives you
app.get('/', (request, response) => {
  response.send('OK, you got it');
});

app.get('/person', (request, resposne) => {
  let person = { name: 'John', hair: false };
  response.json(person);
});

app.get('/location', (request, response) => {
  let data = require('./data-contract/location.json');
})
- You can use app.get(), app.use(), app.put(), app.delete(), app.post()

If you use app.use('*', (request, response) => {
  response.status(404).send('I have no idea what you want');
}); (this uses all the methods above)

[Table of Contents](README.md)