# Read: 13 - Update/Delete

## [Sending Form Data](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Sending_and_retrieving_form_data)

**Client/server architecture**

An HTML form on a web page is nothing more than convenient user-friendly way to configure an HTTP request to send data to a server. This enables the user to provide information to be delivered to the HTTP request. 

**Client side: defining how to send the data**

The ```<form>``` element defines how the data will be sent. All of its attributes are designed to let you configure the request to be sent when a user hits a submit button. The two most important attributes are **action** and **method**. 

**Action Attribute**

The action attribute defines where the data gets sent. Its value must be a valid relative or absolute URL. If this attribute isn't provided, the data will be sent to the URL of the page containing the form which is the current page. 
- The names and values of the non-file form controls are sent to the server as **name=value** pairs joined with ampersands.
- The action value should be a file on the server that can handle the incoming data, including ensuring server-side validation. 
- The server then responds, generally handling the data and loading the URL defined by the action attribute, causing a new page load (or a refresh of the existing page, if the action points to the same page)
- How the data is sent depends on the **method** attribute. 

**Method Attribute**

The method attribute defines how the data is sent. The HTTP protocol provides several ways to perform a request. HTML form data can be transmitted via a number of different methods; the most common being the **GET** and the **POST** method. 

The **GET method**
- Is the method used by the browser to ask the server to send back a given resource. 

The **POST method** 
- Is the method the browser uses to talk to the server when asking for a response that takes into account the data provided in the body of the HTTP request.
- If a form is sent using this method, the data is appended to the body of the HTTP request. 

**Viewing HTTP Requests**

HTTP requests are never displayed to the user. To view them, open the dev tools in Chrome and select **Network -> All -> URL in "Name" tab -> Headers**. You can then get the form data. 

[Table of Contents](README.md)