# Read: 03 - HTML Lists, CSS Boxes, JS Control Flow

## From Duckett HTML Book:

### Ch. 3: "Lists" (pp.62-73)

HTML provides us with 3 different types of lists:
- **Ordered lists** are lists where ach item in the list is numbered. Typically in step by step instructions.
  - Created by the ```<ol>``` element. Each item in the list is placed between ```<li>``` tags. li stands for "list item."
- **Unordered lists** are lists thta begin with e bullet point.
  - Created by the ```<ul>``` element. ```<li>``` tag used to each item on the list.
- **Definition lists** are made up of a set of terms along with definitions for each of those terms.
  - Created by the ```<dl>``` element. ```<dt>``` and ```<dd>``` elements used insde the ```<dl>``` tag. ```dt``` is used to contain the term being defined, ```<dd>``` is used to contain the definition.
You can put a second list inside an ```<li>``` element to create a sublist or **nested** list.

### Ch. 13: "Boxes" (pp.300-329)

CSS treats HTML as if each element has its own individual box. Every box has three available properties that can be adjusted to control its appearance. 
  1. **Border** - Every box has a border even if it's not visible or the px are set to zero. The border seperates one box from another.
  1. **Margin** - Sit outside the edge of the border. You can set the width of a margin to create a gap between the borders of two adjacent boxes.
  1. **Padding** - Is the space between the border of a box and any content contained within it. Adding padding can increase the readability of its contents.
  - Designers refer to the space between items on a page as **white space**. If you have boxes on your page right next to eachother, you wouldn't want the borders of the boxes to touch so you'd put a margin between them to get some white space to make the boxes more defined. 
  - See pages 309-322 on more specific styles you can use with CSS for borders, margin, and padding. 

## Duckett JS Book:

### Ch. 4: "Decisions and Loops" (pp. 162-182)

**Switch Statements** allow you to compare a value against possible outcomes and also provides a default option if none matches.
- Switch statements are a lot like if..else statements in the sense that if a value is set to true then the code will run until it finds the true value or else it will run default code. **See page 165 for syntax example**.

#### Loops and Loop Counters

- **Loops** check a condtion. If it returns true, a code block will run. Then the condtion will be checked again and if it still returns true, the code block will run again. It repeats until the condition returns false. There are three common types of loops:
1. **For**
  If you need to run code a specific number of times, use a for loop. (It is the most common loop) In a for loop, the condition is usually a counter which is used to tell how many times the loop should run.
1. **While**
  If you don't know how many times the code should run, you can use a while loop. Here the condition can be something other than a counter, and the code will continue to loop for as long as the condition is true.
1. **Do While**
  The do..while loop is very similar to the while loop, but has one key difference: it will always run the statements inside the curly braces at least once, even if the condition is false. 
- **Loop counters** are the condtion portion of the loop in paranthesis. This instructs the code to run a specified number of times (at least in a **for** loop). The condition (counter) is made up of three statements:
1. **Initialization**
  - Create a variable and set it to 0. This variable is commonly called i, and it acts as the counter. 
  var i = 0;
2. **Condition**
  - The loop should continue to run until the counter reaches a specified number. If the condition is set to count to 10 the result would be "0123456789" if i < 10.
  i < 10;
3. **Update**
  - Every time the loop has run the statements in the curly braces, it adds one to the counter.
  i++ (++ is an increment operator. What ++ is saying is "i plus one")
- Execute the loop with {document.write(i);}
- Entire syntax from above:
for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  document.write(i);
}
      
[Table of Contents](README.md)