# Read: 06 - JS Object Literals, The DOM

## Article: Understand the Problem Domain is the Hardest Part of Programming

Understanding the problem is the most critical piece fo the equation. It is very difficult to solve a problem before you know the question. It's like buzzing in on Jeopardy before you hear the clue and shouting out random questions. 
You can do two things to understanding the problem domain:
1. Make the problem domain easier
1. Get better at understanding the problem domain
(super helpful! wow!)

**You can often make the problem domain easier by cutting out cases and narrowing your focus to a particular part of the problem.**
Meaning there is benefit in breaking down the problem and fully understanding it in parts before expanding to the entire problem.


**The Game Method**
If you look at the basic layout of game levels you get a good picture of how to work a problem. 
Most games today start you with a very simple problem domain (level 1) and as you advance through the levels you start to slowly pick up more details, more moving pieces, and more advanced concepts, building on what you know until you understand a pretty large problem domain.
**Talk it out**
Making sure you completely understand the problem before starting to write code is a good way to avoid wasting time and rewriting code.

## From Duckett JS Book:

### Ch. 3: "Object Literals" (pp. 100-105)

Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model of a something you would recognize from the real world. In an object, variables and functions take on new names. 
- In an object, variables become known as **properties** and functions become known as **methods**.
- Variable and function names are called **keys** in an object.
- An object can't have two keys with the same name because keys are used to acces their corresponding values. 

**Creating an Object**

**Literal notations** are the easist and most popular way to create objects. 
- The object is the curly braces and their contents. 
- Seperate each key from its value using a colon.
- Seperate each property and method with a comma (but not after the last value).

### Ch. 5: "Document Object Model" (pp. 183-242)

The document object model (DOM) specifies how browsers should create a model of an HTML page and how JS can access and update the contents of a web page while it is in the browser window. The DOM is neither part of HTML, nor part of JS; it is a seperate set of rules. It is implemented by all major browser makers, and covers two primary areas:
- Making a Model of the HTML page
- Accessing and changing the HTML page


[Table of Contents](README.md)