# Read: 07 - HTML Tables, JS Constructor Functions

## Vocabulary:
- **Expressions**: Any unit of code that can be evaluated to a value. Since expressions produce values, they can appear anywhere a program expects a value such as the arguments of a function invocation.
- **Instantiated**: to represent as or by an instance
- **Object-oriented programming (OOP)** the basic idea of OOP is that we use objects to model real world things that we want to represent inside our programs, and/or provide a simple way to access functionality that would otherwise be hard or impossible to make use of. 
- **Prototypes** are the mechanism by which JS objects inherit features from one another. 


## Article: Domain Modeling

Domain modeling is the process of creating a coneptual model in code for a specific problem. A model descrbies various entities, their attributes and behaviors, as well as the constraints that govern the problem domain. An entity that stores data in properties and encapsulates behaviors in methods is commonly referred to as an **object-oriented** model. 

### Define a constructor and initialize properties

To define the same properties between many objects, you'll want to use a **constructor function**
- the **new** keyword instantiates (creates) an object
- The constructor funtion initializes properties inside that object using the **this** variable
- The object is stored in a variable for later use.
- Methods can be added to a constructor function's **prototype**.

Domain modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model for a specific problem. 
**Domain model tips**:
1. When modeling a single entity that'll have many instances, build self-contained objects with the same attributes and behaviors.
1. Model its attributes with a constructor function that defines and initializes properties.
1. Model its behaviors with small methods that focus on doing one job well.
1. Create instances using the **new** keyword followed by a call to a constructor function.
1. Store the newly created object in a variable so you can access it's properties and methods from **outside**.
1. Use the **this** variable within methods so you can access the objects properties and methods from **inside**. 

## From Duckett HTML Book:

### Ch. 6: "Tables" (pp. 126-145)

There are several different types of information that need to be displayed in a grid or table. Examples: sprots results, stock reports, train timetables.

**Table Structure**

- The ```<table>``` element is used to create a table. 
- Indicate the start of each row by using the ```<tr>``` tag (for table row).
- Each cell of the table is represented using ```<td>``` for table data.
- The ```<th>``` tag is for table headings (which would go inside ```<table><tr><th>```)
- For long tables use ```thead``` that hold ```<th>```, ```<tbody>``` that hold ```<tr>``` and ```<td>```, and ```<tfoot>```.

## From Duckett JS Book:

### Ch. 3: "Functions, Methods, and Objects" (pp.106-144)

#### Constructor Notation

The **new** keyword and the **object constructor** create a blank object. You can then add properties and methods to the object.
**var hotel = new Object();** = Blank object. **new** is the keyword to initialize **Object();** which is the constructor function.
Now you can start adding properties and methods to it using the dot notation: hotel.name = 'Quay';

**Creating Many Objects**

Sometimes you will want several objects to represent similar things. Object constructors can use a function as a template for creating objects. 
First, create the template with the object's properties and methods: funtion Hotel(name, rooms, booked){
  this.name = name;
  this.rooms = rooms;
  this.booked = booked;
  this.checkAvailability = function() {
    return this.rooms - this.booked;
  };
} 
- The **this** keyword is used instead of the object name to indicate that the property or method belongs to the object that this **this* function creates.
- You create **instances** of the object using the constructor function.
- The **new** keyword followed by a call to the function creates a new object. The properties of each object are given as arguments to the function:
var quayHotel = new Hotel('Quay', 40, 25);

**Arrays are Objects**

Arrays are actually a special type of object. They hold a related set of key/value pairs (like all objects), but the key for each value is its index number.
- You can combine arrays and objects to create complex data structures:
- - Arrays can store a series of objects(and remember their order).
- - Objects can also hold arrays (as values of their properties).

**Three Groups of Built-In objects**: 
- **Browser Object Model** creates a model of the browser tab or window.
- **Document Object Model** creates a model of the current web page.
- **Global Javascript Objects** do not form a single model like the DOM. They are a group of individual objects that relate to different parts of JS language. Global objects data types (string, number, boolean) that handle real world concepts like dates, math, and regex (regex matches patterns within strings of text)

**See page 126 for examples of DOM properties and methods.**

[Table of Contents](README.md)