# Read: 13 - Local Storage

## Article: "The Past, Present, and Future of Local Storage for Web Applications"

  For native (local) applications, operating systems typically provide an abstraction layer for storing and retrieving application-specific data like preferences or runtime state. These values may be stored in the registry, INI files, XML files, or other places according to platform convention. If your native client application needs local storage beyond key/value pairs, you can embed your own database, invent your own file format, or any number of other solutions. 

 - Cookies were invnted in the web's early history and can be used for storing small amounts of data. They have 3 downsides:
  1. Cookies are included with every HTTP request, which slows down a web app by needlessely transmitting the same data over and over
  2. Cookies are included with every HTTP request, thereby sending data unencrypted over the internet.
  3. Cookies are limited to about 4 KB of data - enough to slow down your app, but not enough to be useful. 

What we want is:
- a lot of storage space on the client that persists beyond a page refresh and isn't transmitted to the server. 

### Introducing HTML5 Storage

Certain browsers refer to "HTML5 storage" as local storage or DOM storage. 
- Local storage - A way for web pages to store named key/value paris locally, within the client web browser. 
Like cookies, this data persists even after you navigate away from the site, close your browser tab, exit your browser. 
- Unlike cookies, this data is never transmitted to the remote web server. 
Unlike all previous attempts at providing persistent local storage, it is implemented natively in web browsers, so it is available even when third-party browser plugins aren't. 
- Before you can use it, you should detect whether the browser supports it. 
- You can write a function that checks for HTML5 storage:
function supports_html5_storage() {
  try {
    return 'localStorage' in window && window['localStorage'] !== null;
  } catch (e) {
    return false;
  }
}

### Using HTML5 Storage

Local storage is based on named key/value pairs. You store data based on a named key, then you can retrieve that data with the same key. 
- The named key is a string
- The data can be any type supported by JS, including strings, booleans, integers, or floats. But the data is still stored as a string. 
- If you are storing and retrieving anything other than strings, you will need to use methods like parseInt() to coerce your retrieved data into the expected JS datatype. 
- Calling setItem() with a named key that already exists will silently overwrite previous values. Calling getItem() with a non-existent key will return null rather than throw an exception.
- You can treat localStorage object as an associative array. Instead of using getItem() and setItem() methods, you can simply use square brackets. 
ie. var foo = localStorage["bar"]; 
localStorage["bar"] = foo; 

There are also methods for removing value for a named key, and clearing the entire storage area (deleting all key/values at once).
removeItem(in DOMString key);
void clear ();
- Calling removeItem() with a non-existenet key will do nothing.

Lastly, there is a property to get the total number of values in the storage area, and to iterate through all of the keys by index (get the name of each key).
interface Storage {
  readonly attribute unsigned long length;
  getting DOMString key(in unsigned index);
};
- If you call key() with an index that is not between 0-(length-1), the function will return null. 

### Tracking Changes to the HTML5 Storage Area

If you want to keep track of when the storage area changes, you can trap the storage event. 
- The storage event is fired on the window object whenever setItem(), removeItem(), or clear() is called and **actually changes something.**
The storage event is supported everywhere localStorage object is supported. Meaning you'll have to check if which event mechanism your browser supports.  

[Table of Contents](README.md)